Known bugs in release 0.1.3

o Some combinations of (terrain + terrain) or (terrain + terrain + vehicle)
  result in sub-optimal combat maps.  This may be largely fixed/worked around
  by means of better maps in examples/data/world/maps/terrain_combat_maps.ghul

o LOS code has been re-written to use new algorithms and looks mush
  better, including circular LOS radii greater than 9.  Some LOS
  behaviors are still imperfect, such as the view through a window
  when aligned perfectly on a diagonal line.  This might be fixed by manually
  tweaking the generated table for the 1.0 slope.

o The in-game map editor (^Terraform and ^Save Map commands) is very
  useful, but only saves "maps" (grids of terrain), as distinct from
  "places" (map + mechanisms, NPCs, objects, ...).  This will remain
  so until the new lexer + parser is in place, as such functionality
  requires the ability to save arbitrary data.

  Also, the "terrain palette" saved also saves the "quick terrains",
  but only as comments in the GhulScript.  Adding support to load
  quick terrains is trivial, and will be done in future.


Known bugs in release 0.1.2

o Nixie attacks sometimes start combat with wrong orientation (hard to
  reproduce)

o Frame sometimes gets messed up and needs a repaint (really? or only during
  debug sessions?)

o NPC combat behaviour on maps with lots of los-blocking terrain still looks
  weird. NPCs need to be a bit more aggressive, blocked missiles need to be
  reported better; in general I think the user just needs more feedback to
  understand what's going on.

o Bridge-nixie problem: nixie's don't get placed because their party is placed
  on impassable terrain and the party members can't pathfind back to the
  party. So I removed find_party as a restriction. Now if the player party
  enters  dungeon one of the members can get placed in a cell where they are
  trapped. Proper solution: restore find-party restriction, make party
  placement more flexible (search at least half the map for a passable location
  for the party), and permit stacking.

o Ship-to-shore combat can look funny, especially when the bridge terrain is
  involved.

o Looks like we segfault upon exit from ship-to-ship combat. Just noticed this
  while preparing the release, so it might be -O2 optimization (meaning an
  uninitialized variable somewhere).


Known BUGS in release 0.1.1

o Firing ship cannons in town at the nixies causes combat to begin immediately,
  regardless of how far away the nixie party is

o Lots of warnings about non-existent sound files