Nazghul, a u5 clone.

General Description
-------------------

Nazghul is a game engine modeled after the late-1980's game Ultima 5 (hence u5)
by Origin Systems (no affiliation with Origin or its parent company is implied
by that statement). The goal is to do everything u5 can do, except for the bad
parts, and to do some things better.

Nazghul presents a very similar user interface and game system as u5. The main
view is top-down and tile-based. Players control a party of one or more
characters. The principle game activities are exploration, turn-based combat
with hostile npc parties, solving puzzles and experimenting with magic and
artifacts.

Although very similar to u5, nazghul has some important differences, summarized
below (this is not a comprehensive list):

* Unlike u5, nazghul is *not* the game. Nazghul is the engine which runs the
  game. A game is a script which the engine reads when loading a game and
  writes when saving a game. All object types, maps, characters, magical
  effects and anything else that qualifies as game data is configured in the
  script.

* Dungeons in u5 were first-person 3d perspective. In nazghul they are top-down
  2d like everything else.

* Conversation with npc's was very limited in u5. For example, each npc could
  only ask one question. In nazghul conversation trees have no such limitations
  and npc's have many more options to respond with.

* In u5 triggers were limited and special-cases. Nazghul replaces triggers with
  a much more generic "mechanism" feature, including the ability to link
  mechanisms together.

* Party members can be any species of class of character in the game.

* Different species can have different body types (e.g., a centaur, or a
  four-handed creature, or a creature which is all head and eyestalks) and
  armor and weapon types may be specific or general across the different body
  types.


Top-Level Directories
---------------------

test    The test suite for the engine.
scripts Various utility scripts.
src     The source code fort the engine.
examples
        An example game world for demonstrating the engine.
doc     Documents for players and developers.


Installation & Playing
----------------------

Refer to the INSTALL file(s) for instructions on installing nazghul on your
system.

Refer to doc/PLAYERS_GUIDE for instructions on how to play the game.

Licensing
---------

The source code for the nazghul engine is released under the GNU General Public
License. The source code for the test and example scripts are relased to the
public domain. See the COPYING file for detailed information.